Shocked by my son’s outrageous demand to vacate our own home, the one we chose and made the purchase possible as well as care for is an understatement. 


After the first wave of surprise, fear, anger, and helplessness, we saw the first deadliness he has set pass, August 7th, 2026, to produce (within 10 days from receiving his hand-delivered notice to vacate) a fully funded offer to purchase our home for about $350,000 backed by a financial institution to do a peaceful transfer passed. 


He perfectly knows that prior to this notice, he just abandoned us penniless 4 months ago, with no income to have to figure life on our own, claiming he would support us while starting to live on his own, according to his letter dated March 7th, 2026 when he suddenly left, with no warning, in the middle of the night. 

For the last 10 years, we scaffolded him, because of his lack of executive function, to make sure he would maintain his job and work in our IT business that we were co-running with him and keeping him accountable. Holding life around somebody who is living with severe behavioral disorders is extenuating, exhausting, and emptied all our resources. 


We have signed agreement, the three of us, my husband, my son, and me, that states that we are co-owners, we make all the decisions together, and my son is prohibited from demanding us to vacate the property under any circumstances, until we are able to take over the title and the mortgage payments in our name. This agreement was signed on September 13th, 2023, during the first year when we moved in after having purchased this home. 


The real problem, behind his outrageous demand to vacate our own home, is that the mortgage is slowly but surely defaulting, and that if no payment is made, foreclosure and auction process will inevitably happen. 

My son attempted to cure the arrears, and made 3 payments mid-July 2026 to bring the loan current, of a total of about $8000. The 3 payments bounced as he didn’t set aside the funds in a separate account, and allowed other payments to go through this account, making all three payments on July 15 and 16 being reversed. It looks like on July 23rd, 2026, he got the notice that his attempted payments were all reversed, and this is when, instead of reaching out to us in a clean manner, asking to think about solutions together, he decided that selling our home before foreclosure was the only way he could divest from this “financial liability” as he calls our home. 


He totally bypassed our signed housing agreement that gives us the same rights as him to be in our home and make all the decisions for the house. He self-proclaimed an authority that is absurd, demanding us to either provide a fully funded $350,000 offer by August 7th, or to vacate the property by August 31st, to facilitate a private sale before the foreclosure auction. 


There are many things he didn’t think through when making this sudden demand without involving us in the reasoning:

1) We are in a buyer’s market currently. Mortgage rates are 6.5% making affording a mortgage more difficult, and reducing the amount of purchase buyers get approved to buy a home. There are plenty of houses for sale in the area. Just in our zip code, there are 498 homes that are in foreclosure waiting for auction right now. 


2) The amount due to the mortgage company corresponds to the market price of the house, almost dollar for dollar. 


3) Moving costs, bringing the house to market, staging the home, closing costs, assessment costs, etc. add up very fast in the tens of thousands of dollars that are at the seller’s expense, money he doesn’t have. 


4) The backyard is still a plot of dirt, and should be at least brought to a basic desert landscape level to sell it, which costs a few more tens of thousands of dollars that he doesn’t have.


5) There is a solar system on the roof that has a lien on the house that must be fully paid off at the moment of the sale of the house. This is a $44,500 solar system that has to be paid off, and that has to be added on top of the price of the house. 


5) We have 100% right to stay in the house, to reside here, and to not vacate at all.


In order to sell this home, he has to come up with somewhere between $50,000 to $100,000 above the market price of this home at this time. Since we bought it 3 years ago, the market price of the house is down 6%, making it a very bad time for a sale.




One step we took on August 11th, 2026 is to formally record a notarized memorandum of equitable interest and housing agreement on the house, which will further cloud the title in the unlikely case he would be able to find a buyer who purchases it with all the added costs. This signed agreement gives both of us, my husband and I, full co-owners right on the house, as we were the ones bringing this entire purchase to fruition, and living in it full time since we bought it as a new-build in January 2023.


So, with all of that said, we now have to address the elephant in the room: the mortgage slowly but surely defaulting. Forbearance is not possible until November 2027 as we already received it in November 2025, and it is possible only after 24 full monthly payments recorded with the mortgage company. 


Refinancing it in our own names, so that his name is cleared from this responsibility seems to be the only way currently available to transfer the house, without going through an official sale that triggers all the things I mentioned above, making a sale unlikely and unrealistic in our 2026 market. But to refinance, we have to come up either with 25% downpayment so that our income history doesn’t count, or with a 24 months or proven record of income history that on average covers the payment of the mortgage which hasn’t happened in the last 24 months so far. 


So, what is left if a sale is not realistically possible? 


Urgently bring the mortgage loan current. That means an $8000 payment to the mortgage company to cover 3 full months and the month of May that is partially paid in an unapplied account held by the mortgage company. And that has to have happened before August 31st, 2026 indeed, because if now, any day in September, a foreclosure can be triggered. 

So, we intensely continue our Miracle Fund personal fundraising campaign to bring the mortgage current, while we rebuild our businesses and keep on figuring out life on our own. 


Now, on top of that, you add Sascha’s profound emotional distress, as the prospect to lose the home and our beloved cats is the worst torture he can experience. We already explained why the cats are so important to him, to his well-being, to his balance, and for the cats themselves it is essential to have a stable household, with no relocation disruption, especially if it is to end up in an overcrowded city shelter, at risk of being euthanized because there is not enough room for every cat to wait until they find the next forever home. We are their forever home. We are their human parents and we have taken the responsibility to care for them, to love them, and to nurture them for their entire life, not for a few years and then we have to bring them back to a shelter, where we adopted them from. 


So, this is our update. We keep navigating it, keep praying, keep believing in miracles, and keep asking you for donations, for sharing the campaign, and to find our miracle worker who not only bring the mortgage current, but give us the home’s title, fully paid off with no mortgage on it anymore, so that we can continue to care for our cats and our lives free of worry for our safety and stability.